---
title:  "Release 0.2.0"
author: chrisdembia
version: 0.2.0
categories: [release]
---
This release contains a MATLAB version of Moco's 2D predictive simulation of
walking, contributed by Brian Umberger, and examples in MATLAB, Python, and C++
for using the MocoInverse tool. Lastly, we added examples for creating a custom
goal in C++; see exampleSlidingMassAdvanced.cpp and
exampleMocoCustomEffortGoal.

To easily plot a solution in MATLAB, we introduced the
osimMocoTrajectoryReport.m utility.

We updated the versions of Simbody and OpenSim that we bundle with Moco. As a
result, this release contains a fix for the simbody-visualizer for macOS
Catalina, and contains OpenSim's support for IMUs.

This release contains the following new modules:
- MocoOutputGoal, for minimizing any scalar output of a model.
- MocoFrameDistanceConstraint, to constrain the distances between frames in the model.
- MocoAngularVelocityTrackingGoal and MocoAccelerationTrackingGoal, added in
  anticipation of supporting IMU data in the future.

We made minor changes to various parts of Moco's interface; you may have to
make small changes to your code to use this release. For example, converting
muscles from Millard2012EquilibriumMuscle to DeGrooteFregly2016Muscle now
preserves the fiber damping property, while previously we set fiber damping to
0 during this conversion. To set fiber damping to zero, you can use
ModOpFiberDampingDGF.

More details about this release are in the [CHANGELOG.md
file](https://github.com/opensim-org/opensim-moco/blob/0.2.0/CHANGELOG.md).

Download this release from [SimTK](https://simtk.org/frs/?group_id=1815).
