---
title:  "Release 1.0.0"
author: nickbianco
version: 1.0.0
categories: [release]
---
Per the recent announcement from Jen Hicks, the newest version of Moco has been
released along with OpenSim 4.2! Since Moco is now merged into the core OpenSim 
codebase, we’re calling this release Moco 1.0.0. It’s been a long wait since 
the last release, but the time spent unifying the Moco and OpenSim codes will 
ensure long term stability for the Moco project and will allow for faster 
development cycles going forward.

Thanks to those who have been active contributors to the Moco forum! Even 
though Moco releases will now be included with OpenSim releases posted on the 
main OpenSim SimTK page, the Moco SimTK forum will remain the main hub for all 
Moco related discussion.

In this release we’ve added the component Bhargava2004SmoothedMuscleMetabolics, 
a smoothed implementation of the Bhargava et al. (2004) metabolics model 
designed for gradient-based optimization (contributed by Antoine Falisse). With
this component and MocoOutputGoal, you can now include metabolic cost terms in 
the objective function. Refer to [example2DWalkingMetabolics](https://github.com/opensim-org/opensim-core/blob/master/OpenSim/Examples/Moco/example2DWalking/example2DWalkingMetabolics.cpp) 
to see how to use this component in your MocoProblems.

We’ve fixed two major bugs related to muscle wrapping where 
1) ModOpReplaceMusclesWithDeGrooteFregly2016 did not copy over the original 
muscle’s PathWrapSet and 2) muscle wrapping wasn’t thread-safe, which 
disallowed parallelization with MocoCasADiSolver. Muscle wrapping should now 
work seamlessly without needing to change how you construct your models with 
ModelProcessor.
 
We’ve included various small updates in this release. The analyze() utility 
function has been split into a new analyze() function that takes a 
StatesTrajectory and an analyzeMocoTrajectory() function that takes a 
MocoTrajectory. TableProcessor no longer automatically converts tables from 
degrees to radians; use TableProcessor::processAndConvertToRadians() or 
TabOpConvertDegreesToRadians instead. An Exception is now thrown if the model 
includes joints whose generalized speeds do not match the derivative of the 
generalized coordinates (i.e., BallJoint, FreeJoint, EllipsoidJoint, and 
ScapulothoracicJoint) since Moco does not support these joint types yet.

Finally, the Moco paper has been published in PLOS Computational Biology! 
[Read the paper here](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1008493). 

More details about this release are in the [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/opensim-org/opensim-core/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) 
and [CHANGELOG_MOCO.md](https://github.com/opensim-org/opensim-core/blob/master/CHANGELOG_MOCO.md) files.

Get Moco 1.0.0 by downloading the [OpenSim 4.2 release from SimTK](https://simtk.org/frs/?group_id=91).
