---
title:  "Release 1.2.0"
author: nickbianco
version: 1.2.0
categories: [release]
---

I've been receiving lots of questions about MocoOutputGoal on the Moco forum recently,
which made me realize that I never sent out an announcement for the latest Moco updates! 
OpenSim 4.4 with Moco 1.2.0 was released this past summer, and it includes some useful 
updates to MocoOutputGoal along with some other additions and bug fixes.

In OpenSim, [Output](https://simtk.org/api_docs/opensim/api_docs44/classOpenSim_1_1Output.html)s allow 
you to query values from a Model that are calculated from a State object. We created 
MocoOutputGoal to make it easier to build custom cost functions in Moco that depend on Output
values. In Moco 1.2.0, we've updated MocoOutputGoal to now support not only scalar Output types, but also Vec3 and
SpatialVec types, which covers the majority of Outputs offered by OpenSim Components. We've also
added new MocoGoals which allow you to minimize an Output at the beginning of a trajectory (MocoInitialOutputGoal),
an Output at the end of a trajectory (MocoFinalOutputGoal), the error between initial and final 
Output values (MocoOutputPeriodicityGoal), and the error between an Output and a user-provided
trajectory (MocoOutputTrackingGoal). In addition, we added MocoOutputConstraint to allow you to
include Output values in a path constraint in your problems. Many users have requested more 
flexibility in building cost functions in Moco, and these new Output-based goals will give you
many more options to do so. 

Other updates include fixes for MocoAngularVelocityTrackingGoal and MocoOrientationTrackingGoal,
which were not properly supported in Matlab and Python. We fixed a bug that was breaking marker
tracking problems when using 'setMarkersReferenceFromTRC()' in MocoTrack. We fixed a bug where 
calculations from MocoStudy's 'analyze()' were incorrect because DeGrooteFregly2016Muscle auxiliary 
variables were not properly included. Finally, we implemented a fix for DeGrooteFregly2016Muscle so that 
optimal fiber lengths and tendon slack lengths are scaled when using the ScaleTool. 

Get Moco 1.2.0 by downloading the [OpenSim 4.4 release from SimTK](https://simtk.org/frs/?group_id=91).

More details about this release can be foudn in the [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/opensim-org/opensim-core/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) 
and [CHANGELOG_MOCO.md](https://github.com/opensim-org/opensim-core/blob/master/CHANGELOG_MOCO.md) files.

[Read the Moco paper here](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1008493). 
